We measured aesthetic preferences with a two-alternative forced choice task (2-AFC). On each trial, subjects saw two images and asked to select the one they preferred with a keypress. To ensure that subjects were paying attention, we randomly included trials in which the subject had to select the larger number between two images of numbers.

This task was completed on six separate occasions. For ease of reference, we refer to each of these occasions numerically by session. Each session was one week apart, except for Session 1, which consisted of two separate 2-AFC tasks, roughly 20 minutes apart, referred to as Session 1A and Session 1B respectively.

In Session 1A, after providing consent and debriefing, participants began by completing a 2-AFC task on images of cars, shirts, and phone cases in three separate blocks, one for each category of objects. The order of these blocks was counter-balanced across subjects. Each block consisted of a total of 105 unique comparisons, presented in random order. After completing all 3 blocks, subjects were given a digit-span memory task lasting roughly 20 minutes. Immediately after, in Session 1B, participants again completed the same 2-AFC preference task as before. Therefore, the first two preference measurements were 20 minutes apart. The digit span task was given in between in order mitigate any short-term memory effects. In addition, participants were given explicit instructions to complete all preference tasks based on their preference at that very moment, and not based on memory of previous choices. After completing both parts of the first session, participants were required to return on a weekly interval for 4 weeks. At each following session, participants were administered the same 2-AFC preference task, with the same procedure as Session 1B.

Session 6: Association Valence and Psychological Surveys One week after completion of Sessions 1 - 5, participants were asked to return for a final follow up aesthetic-preference session. Here, participants completed a Unique Corporate Association Valence task (Spears et al., 2006; Schepman et al., 2015). In this task, participants received the following instructions: “Please write a word or short description in the boxes below of any thoughts that the image brings to mind. Please try not to use colors in the descriptions. Type your responses in the three boxes and then please indicate how positive, neutral, or negative the description is to you.”

In response, participants provided three associations for each object. Then, participants rated each of the associations on a subjective valence scale ranging from -3 to +3. This association task was only conducted with images of cars and shirts due to time limitations.

After completing the valence association tasks, participants filled out three psychological surveys. They were the Barrat Impulsivity Test (Stanford et al., 2009), the revised Green et al., Paranoid Thoughts Scale (Freeman et al., 2021), and the General Anxiety Disorder-7 Questionnaire (Spitzer et al., 2006). To ensure that subjects were paying attention, each of the surveys included mock questions that required subjects to click a predefined option.
